Libero is the defensive specialist in the team

He does the following
- Pick attacks
- Follow up for attacks
- Sets loose balls

- The libero is a defensive backline player.
- The libero is not allowed to jump set in the three-meter line.
- The libero always defends from position 5.
- The libero is not allowed to serve.

How to identify a libero on a team;
The libero wears a different colour from the rest of the team.
Most times, the libero is shorter than other players on their team.

The libero passes majority of serves when on court.
The libero cannot block or attempt to block even if they are tall enough.
The libero is free to come in and out of the game an unlimited amount of times without using the team substitution.

The libero is used in rotation with the middle blocker most times. When the middle blocker rotates to the back row, the libero comes in for them. 
The libero are typically considered the best passers on the team.
The libero are the hypeman/woman on the team. They encourage their team mates.
The libero is the best. Accept it or leave it.

There are certain qualities a libero should have. A libero should;
i. have great ball control skills.
ii. be quick at reading where the ball will likely land on the court.
iii. have agile movement and accurate passes.

Why Libero role?
 Libero role is the sweetest in this team game called volleyball. This role frustrates the opponent by receiving serves, to defending attacks and picking loose balls. If you want to frustrate your opponents with your great pass and defense skills, be a libero. 
Another reason why this position is the main deal is because you can never be dormant on court. You have to be agile and at alert in as much as you're on court. 
If you're a libero just know you're a superhero in human form. The libero saves those 'almost impossible to reach' out ball played by fellow teammates.
........
I want you to picture a child on a playground. All the child cares about is having the most fun he can before his parent comes to take him home and clean him up. For a fact, that child is less bothered about injuries. All he cares about is play. He is less concerned about the food he will eat when he returns home or the shout and complaint awaiting him from his mum. 
Now, think of this child as the libero on court. Asides from the fact that the child and a libero are likely to be petite in size, they share a number of things in common. All the libero wants to do is play. They are always focused and have less time to worry about other unrelated issue bothering them as individuals.
As a libero, your mind, body and spirit should be in the game to get a top notch performance. 
Liberos have a resilient spirit. No matter how many times they fall, they always get back up.
WORRY LESS, JUST BE A LIBERO!